URL.parse() static method docs (#33207)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/url_api/resolving_relative_urls/index.md

---
title: Resolving relative URLs
slug: Web/API/URL_API/Resolving_relative_urls
page-type: guide
---

{{DefaultAPISidebar("URL API")}}

The [`URL()` constructor](/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL/URL) or the {{domxref("URL.parse_static", "URL.parse()")}} static method of the [URL API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL_API) can be used to resolve a relative URL and a base URL to an absolute URL.

Both methods take up to two string arguments and return [`URL()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL) object representing an absolute URL.
The first argument represents either an absolute URL or a relative URL, while the second is a base URL that is used to resolve the relative URL — if one is specified in the first argument.

> The methods resolve the relative URL in the same way: the main difference between them is that the `URL()` constructor throws if invalid URLs are passed, while `parse()` returns `null`.

Author: Only difference with respect to resolution (of course one is static, and the other is on the prototype).
```suggestion
The methods resolve the relative URL in the same way, except that the `URL()` constructor throws if invalid URLs are passed, while `parse()` returns `null`.
```

```js
const url = "articles";
const base = "https://developer.mozilla.org/some/path";
const constructorResult = new URL(url, base);
// => https://developer.mozilla.org/url/some/articles
const parseResult = URL.parse(url, base);
// => https://developer.mozilla.org/url/some/articles
```

You can see from the example that resolving the `URL` from a supplied base URL and relative URL is not simply a concantenation of the supplied parameters.

In this case a path relative to the current directory is passed (`articles`).
The current directory of the `base` URL is the URL string up to the last forward slash.
Here `https://developer.mozilla.org/some/path` has no trailing forward slash, so the current directory is `https://developer.mozilla.org/some/`, and hence resolves to a final URL of `https://developer.mozilla.org/url/some/articles`.

Relative URLs are resolved against the base URL using a path reference that is relative to: the current directory (`./`), the parent directory of the current directory (`../`), or the site root (`/`).
The following sections show how resolution works for each type of relative path.

## Current directory relative

> A relative path prefixed with `./` or no prefix, such as `./article` or `article`, is relative to the current directory of the URL represented by the `base` argument.

Author: ```suggestion
A relative path prefixed with `./` or no prefix, such as `./article`, `article`, or `./article/`, is relative to the current directory of the URL represented by the `base` argument.
```

```html hidden
<pre id="log"></pre>
```

```css hidden
#log {
  height: 90px;
  padding: 0.5rem;
  border: 1px solid black;
}
```

```js hidden
const logElement = document.getElementById("log");
function log(text) {
  logElement.innerText += `${text}\n`;
}
```

The current directory of the `base` URL is the URL string up to the last forward slash, which is `https://test.example.org/api/` for both of the `base` strings in the code block below.
The current directory relative URL `article` is appended to this, resolving to `https://test.example.org/api/article`

```js
log(new URL("./article", "https://test.example.org/api/").href);
// => https://test.example.org/api/article
log(new URL("article", "https://test.example.org/api/v1").href);
// => https://test.example.org/api/article
```

> Similarly, below both base URL strings have a current directory of `https://test.example.org/api/v2/`.
> We append `story` and `story` to these to resolve the final absolute URL.
> 
> ```js
> log(new URL("./story/", "https://test.example.org/api/v2/").href);
> // => https://test.example.org/api/v2/story
> log(new URL("./story", "https://test.example.org/api/v2/v3").href);
> // => https://test.example.org/api/v2/story

Author: ```suggestion
Similarly, below both base URL strings have a current directory of `https://test.example.org/api/v2/`.
We append `story/` and `story` to these to resolve the final absolute URL.

```js
log(new URL("./story/", "https://test.example.org/api/v2/").href);
// => https://test.example.org/api/v2/story/
log(new URL("./story", "https://test.example.org/api/v2/v3").href);
// => https://test.example.org/api/v2/story
```

> ---

Author: @wbamberg Here is the updated "Resolving relative URLs" doc. Took me longer than expected and is much more "labored". Mostly because I wanted to be crystal clear in my understanding, and at the end of that I had lots of examples.

The actual behaviour is relatively simple - relative URLs are relative to the current directory (either down or up via a parent) or the site root. The current directory is the base URL up to the last forward slash. That's it, other than a tiny wrinkle that if your relative URL is "" then the whole base URL is used. I have not documented that, since its a stupid thing to do.

I haven't cut it back because while it is that simple, when I look at the examples I see edge cases that might not be so obvious. Such as the fact that if you don't specify a forward slash on the site, you get one by magic. And so on.
Would welcome feedback.

Author: Hmmm. I just scanned it again. It really does seem very heavyweight given the actual simplicity of the rules. 
If you don't have a chance to look I might rejig it later in the week (all to close to it right now). But my feeling on quick scan is that my summary in comment above with a few examples is probably enough.
